Article  about Feliz and Fable React (#350)
SAFE-Stack/docs: docs/faq/faq-felizandfable.md

In a nutshell Fable.React and Feliz are two F# libraries which perform a similar function:

* Provide a typesafe F# wrapper to allow you to interact with React.
* Provide a way to create your own wrappers around existing React components.
* Provide a DSL for you to consume and create React wrappers in a consistent way.

## DSL differences
The main distinction between the two libraries is that Fable.React follows a layout as follows:

```fsharp
element [ prop; prop ] [ childElement; childElement ]
```

For example:

```fsharp
h1 [ Style [ Color "Tomato" ] ] [
    p [] [ text [ Value "Hello" ] [] ] // no props
    p [] [ text [ Value "Another paragraph" ] [] ] // no props
    h2 [ Style [ Color "Blue" ] ] [] // no child elements

> ]

Reviewer: This is not valid Fable.React code well it will compile but this not valid HTML.

You are setting the `Value` attributes of a `text` element instead of displaying text.

```fs
    h1 [ Style [ Color "Tomato" ] ] [
        p [] [ str "Hello" ] // no props
        p [] [ str "Another paragraph" ] // no props
        h2 [ Style [ Color "Blue" ] ] [] // no child elements
    ]
```

```

In this example, `h1` is the "top level" element, with a single attribute and three children, two of which have their own children.

Feliz adopts a different style, in which instead of an element having two lists, there is only one. The list directly contains *either* attributes *or* child elements, but not both:

The above snippet would convert into Feliz as follows:

```fsharp
Html.h1 [
    prop.style [ style.color "Tomato" ]
    prop.children [
        Html.p [ prop.text "Hello" ]

>         Html.p [ prop.text "Another paragraph" ]

Reviewer: If you want to show case Feliz support for overload you could replace this line with `Html.p "Another paragraph"`

        Html.h2 [ prop.style [ style.backgroundColor "Blue" ] ]
    ]
]
```

The `prop.children` function is required when mixing and matching attributes and elements:

```fsharp
Html.h1 [ // this is fine - just props underneath h1
    prop.style [ style.color "Tomato" ]
    prop.title "foo"
]

Html.h1 [ // fine - just elements underneath h1
    Html.p [ prop.text "Hello" ]
]

Html.h1 [ // not fine - can't mix and match attributes and elements
    prop.style [ style.color "Tomato" ]
    Html.p [ prop.text "Hello" ]
]
```

> In order to allow both attributes and elements in the same list, Feliz introduces the `children` node:

Reviewer: It feels like you are repeating the same sentence has above the snippets.

You can perhaps remove that sentence and include the everything in a single snippet

In a nutshell Fable.React and Feliz are two F# libraries which perform a similar function:

* Provide a typesafe F# wrapper to allow you to interact with React.
* Provide a way to create your own wrappers around existing React components.
* Provide a DSL for you to consume and create React wrappers in a consistent way.

## DSL differences
The main distinction between the two libraries is that Fable.React follows a layout as follows:

```fsharp
element [ attribute; attribute ] [ childElement; childElement ]
```

> Note: Code snippets below are for illustrative purposes only and do not compile.

For example:

```fsharp
h1 [ style "color:Tomato" ] [
    p [] [ text "Hello" ] // no attributes
    p [] [ text "Another paragraph" ] // no attributes
    h2 [ style "color:Blue" ] [] // no child elements
]

> ```

Reviewer: I don't think this is a good idea to show invalid code.

I understand that you don't want to show complexe code, but I think using `ClassName <name-of-class>` is simple enough compared to what `Style` would looked like.

Author: Agreed, I simply was writing the code directly in GH. I'll update with valid code.

In this example, `h1` is the "top level" element, with a single attribute and three children, two of which have their own children.

Feliz adopts a different style, in which instead of an element having two lists, there is only one. The list directly contains *either* attributes *or* child elements, but not both:

The above snippet would convert into Feliz as follows:

```fsharp
h1 [
    style "color:Tomato"
    children [
        p [ text "Hello" ]
        p [ text "Another paragraph" ]
        h2 [ style "color:Blue" ]
    ]
]

> ```

Reviewer: Same here.

```fs
h1 [
    className "primary"
    children [
        p [ text "Hello" ]
        p [ text "Another paragraph" ]
        h2 [ className "primary" ]
    ]
]
```

> Code is valid if users use
> ```fs
> open type Feliz.Html
> open type Feliz.prop
> ```

## Guidance
* Fable.React was created initially, whilst Feliz was developed some time later.
* Feliz has better support for React interop and the majority of the community nowadays uses the Feliz DSL style for developing components.

> * Fable.React and Feliz can be mixed into your application if required (for progressive migration for example)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Fable.React and Feliz can be mixed together in your application if required (for progressive migration for example)
```

"Mixed into" doesn't necessarily imply mixed together, so I'd make this clearer.
